README.md, before:

# 100DaysOfCode
Documenting My Journey Of  '#100DaysOfCode'

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 24: jQuery Events
12th November 2K20, 09:02 PM

Learnings: on, click, key events including keypress, keydown, keyup, effects including fade & slide.

Thoughts:
Advanced jQuery events for listeners. Different key events to detect keystrokes pressed by the user. General 'on' method for all the listeners along with the callback method.
Animation effects including fade in/out & slide in/out.

Work Link:
https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

#100daysofcode #jquery #javascript #webdevelopment 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 23: Guess The Color
11th November 2K20, 09:31 PM

Learnings: Practice & Implementation by building mini-project

Thoughts:
Finished the logical part of the game as well. Added JS & jQuery for DOM manipulation. Handled all the event listeners for all the buttons and color tiles of the game grid. The game is now in stable condition & working smoothly. Although it ain't something that big of an achievement, but I still counts it as a little milestone.

Cheers to many more milestones coming in the near future.

Work Link:
https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/Guess-The-Color

#100daysofcode #javascript #jquery #miniproject #webdevelopment 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 22: Guess The Color - Mini Project
10th November 2K20, 10:30 PM

Learnings: Practice & Implementation by building mini-project

Thoughts:
Designed the game page using HTML, CSS & Bootstrap. Implementing the knowledge gained so far by building a simple color guessing game. It will generate random colors using the RGB color model and the player has to guess which of the color tiles represents the given RGB color.
Next will add JS for DOM manipulation.

Work Link:
https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/Guess-The-Color

#100daysofcode #miniproject #html #css #boostrap #webdevelopment 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 21: FreeCodeCamp.org - Basic CSS
9th November 2K20, 10:24 PM

Learnings: revised the basics of CSS @ freecodecamp.org

Thoughts:
Practiced the Basics CSS unit at FreeCodeCamp.org
Revised several CSS rules & concepts including fonts, size, border, different selectors & their priority, hex & rgb color model & more.
Next will begin mini project of color game which utilizes both designing using CSS & Bootstrap as well as DOM manipulation using javascipt & jQuery.

Work Link:
https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/responsive-web-design/basic-css/

#100daysofcode #freecodecamp #webdevelopment 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 20: Intro to jQuery
8th November 2K20, 10:42 PM

Learnings:
1. Select elements using $("cssQuerySelector")
2. Add, remove & toggle classes using jQuery methods
3. Other methods similar to vanilla js including text, html, attr

Thoughts:
Introduction to jQuery. Understood the role of jQuery. Anything that can be done with jQuery can be done without jQuery as well but its about ease of code and clarity. Where it takes long lines of code for particular task, jQuery has inbuilt method/way to do that with just a few lines of code & is more robust.

There's actually a website "http://youmightnotneedjquery.com" which illustrates examples of replicating things done with jQuery using plain js & supports why not to choose jQuery. But its considered worth knowing how to write code with / without jQuery.

Work Link:
https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

#100daysofcode #jquery #webdevelopement 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 19: Advanced DOM Manipulation
7th November 2K20, 10:24 PM

Learnings:
1. Add, remove & toggle classList
2. textContent & innerHTML
3. getAttribute & setAttribute
4. Adding event listeners on elements

Thoughts:
Dived deeper into DOM for advanced manipulation. Generally its considered good practice to add or remove css classes to the elements rather than explicitly specifying the styles with javascript code. Understood the difference between textContent & innerHTML as well as the use of get & setAttribute methods.

Event listeners makes the webpage interactive and simply adds new flavor. Used all the knowledge gained so far about DOM to build a basic 'Scorekeeper' application.

Work Link:
https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

#100daysofcode #dom #javascript #webfundamentals

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 18: Document Object Model
6th November 2K20, 10:24 PM

Learnings: 
1. document - the root element of the DOM
2. 5 ways to select elements (id, class, tag, querySelector, querySelectorAll)
3. Node list of elements similar to arrays
4. Manipulate DOM for blinking effect
5. setInterval method for timely iterations

Thoughts:
DOM - Document Object Model. Worked with 5 ways of selecting the elements using document methods including id, class, tag, querySelector & querySelectorAll. Difference and similarities between node list and arrays. The querySelectorAll method of document returns node list of elements rather than an array. Using setInterval method to change the text colod and background color of elements in timely manner which appears to be a blinking effect.

Work Link:
https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

#100daysofcode #javascript #webdevelopment

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 17: JS Objects
5th November 2K20, 09:44 PM

Learnings:
1. JS object, function as part of object i.e. method 
2. Two ways of accessing keys of object i.e. obj.name & obj["name"] 
3. Using variable to access key of an object
4. this keyword

Thoughts:
JS objects and functions as part of objects i.e. methods. Understood the difference between arrays and objects as well as using the objects with arrays and vice versa according to the scenario. It is similar to the dictionary or map in other programming languages but it allows 2 ways to access its keys i.e. via dot as well as [ ] operators. Also worked with the 'this' keyword to use the properties/fields of the object inside the methods of the object itself.

Work Link:

https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

#100daysofcode #javascript #webdevelopment

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 16: JS Arrays
4th November 2K20, 10:51 PM

Learnings: javascript array functions including push, pop, shift, unshift, indexOf, slice. Array iteration using forEach method.

Thoughts:
Worked with fundamental and one of the most basic data structure i.e. Arrays. Its mostly similar to other programming languages like indexOf method. Slice method is used for splitting and segmentation and also forEach is a method of the array in javascript unlike the language construct in Java.

Work Link: https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

#100daysofcodechallenge #javascript #webdevelopment

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 15: Loops, Functions & Scope
3rd November 2K20, 11:04 PM

Learnings: for and while loops, functions and arguments, local and global scopes

Thoughts:
Practiced basic loops and functions using arguments. Understood the difference between local and global scopes of the variables. One thing that I found quite different from other programming languages is that in case of insufficient or missing arguments in functions, it doesn't crashes and doesn't throws any exceptions but rather implicitly handles it by initializing such variables as undefined.

Work Link:
https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

#100daysofcode #javascript #webdevelopment

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 14: JS Codeflow
2nd November 2K20, 10:01 PM

Learnings: Boolean logic and exceptional cases, == vs === operators, conditional blocks if-else-if

Thoughts:
Deep understanding of the boolean logic. Practiced different combinations of boolean along with == and === operators. Lots of exceptional cases for boolean values which at first seems to be true but are considered as false in javascript and vice versa.

Work Link: https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

#100daysofcode #javascript #webdevelopment 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 13: Intro. to JS
1st November 2K20, 09:18 PM

Learnings: 5 primitive data types (number, string, boolean, null, undefined), prompt, alert, log

Thoughts:
Completed the bootstrap chapter and moved on to the next chapter Intro. to JS. Already excited to work at the back-end side using JS and its libraries and frameworks like React and NodeJS. Understood the basics of JS including its syntax and how to include an external JS file. Within a couple of days I'll get more familiar and comfortable with it and start making some mini-projects.

Work Link: https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

#100daysofcode #javascript #webdevelopment

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 12: Flexbox
31st October 2K20, 11:00 PM

Learnings: flexbox, justify-content-*, align-items-*, main axis, cross axis, flex-direction, flex-row, flex-column, align-self-*

Thoughts:
Took a look at flexbox. It was quite a lot of classes. Understood the different axis and when to use which class to justify and align items accordingly. It makes the box model much more easier and efficient.

Work Link:
https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

#100daysofcode #flexbox #webdevelopment 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 11: Bootstrap Cards
30th October 2K20, 10:42 PM

Learnings: cards, card-img, card-body, card-title, card-text, utility classes including border, margin and padding

Thoughts:
Practiced using cards and utility classes of bootstrap including border, margin and padding with different breakpoints. It provides an easy to use utility classes which would otherwise take long lines of code in CSS.

Work Link:
https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

#100daysofcode #bootstrap4 #webdevelopment 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 10: Bootstrap documentation
29th October 2K20, 09:57 PM

Learnings: block-quote, text-*, blockquote-footer, cite

Thoughts:
Visited bootstrap documentation page for more insights. History, new updates, differences between v3 and v4. Practiced some of the newly learnt tags and classes including text-*, blockquote, and cite.

Work Link: 
https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

#100daysofcode #bootstrap #webdevelopment 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#100daysofcode #bootstrap #webdevelopment 

Day 09: Landing page of calm.com
28th October 2K20, 10:48 PM

Learnings: opacity, filter, brightness,  linear-gradient, container, hover, position

Thoughts:
Took an attempt to clone the landing page of calm.com
using CSS & Bootstrap. Feels good to see myself making progress little by little.

Work Link: 
https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#100daysofcode #bootstrap #webdevelopment 

Day 08: Updated Image Gallery using Bootstrap
27th October 2K20, 09:44 PM

Learnings: jumbotron, navbar, responsive layout for different screen sizes

Thoughts:
Applied the current knowledge of bootstrap to update previously built image gallery. Added navbar and jumbotron. Made it responsive for different screen sizes with just a few lines of code using powerful classes of bootstrap.

Work Link:
https://github.com/kohthecodemaster/webfundamentals

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#100daysofcode #html #freecodecamp 

Day 07: freecodecamp.org - Basic html and html5
26th October 2K20, 11:11 PM

Learnings: Basic html and html5

Thoughts:
Took a day off from bootstrap and explored FreeCodeCamp.org website. It is a wonderful learning resource for web development. One thing about it that intrigued me is its interactive sessions for every learning, there is always a hands-on practice exercise which enhance the level of understanding and promotes "learning by doing" step-by-step.
Completed 'Basic HTML and HTML5' section of responsive-web-design at freecodecamp.org

Work Link:
https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/responsive-web-design/basic-html-and-html5

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#100daysofcode #bootstrap #webdevelopment 

Day 06: Bootstrap Navbar & Grid System
25th October 2K20, 11:12 PM

Learnings:
1. Bootstrap Navbar - navbar, navbar-dark, navbar-expand, navbar-brand, navbar-toggler, collapse, navbar-nav, nav-item, nav-link
2. Grid System - different sizes / break points - col-lg-*, col-md-*, col-sm-*, col-*, offset-*

Thoughts:
Deep dive into bootstrap navbar & its different classes. Took me a lil. while to understand the use-case of various classes by playing with some of them including navbar-nav, navbar-collapse, navbar-toggler, etc. Also worked with basics of grid system & how to make page responsive with different screen sizes using different classes. Next looking forward to implement all this knowledge of bootstrap and explore more.

Work Link: 
https://github.com/kohthecodemaster/webfundamentals

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#100daysofcode #bootstrap #webdevelopment 

Day 05: Basics of Bootstrap
24th October 2K20, 08:29 PM

Learnings: 
Bootstrap buttons - outline, sizes, active, disabled, block
Bootstrap forms - form-group, form-control, form-text, text-muted, form-check, form-check-input, form-check-label, aria-describedby, small

Thoughts:
Introduction to bootstrap framework for designing faster & easier with huge collection of classes. Explored the official docs pf bootstrap and worked with buttons & forms.

Work Link: https://github.com/kohthecodemaster/webfundamentals

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#100daysofcode #css #webdevelopment 

Day 04: Designed Blog Article Page
23rd October 2K20, 08:23 PM

Learnings: linear-gradient, letter-spacing, text-transform, horizontal ruler, margin, padding

Thoughts:
Completed the basics & intermediate units of CSS. Although there's still plenty left to learn in-depth & it'll be mastered gradually with time. Designed simple 'Blog Article' web page using plain HTML & CSS. Next will begin with Bootstrap.

Work Link: https://github.com/kohthecodemaster/webfundamentals

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#100daysofcode #css #webdevelopment

Day 03: Image Gallery
22nd October 2K20, 08:41 PM

Learnings: CSS box model, margin, padding, img, float

Thoughts:
Understood the concept of box model and how each element is treated as a box in CSS. Took an attempt to design simple Tic-Tac-Toe game board using CSS borders.
Designed basic Image Gallery page which made me realize the power of CSS. Looking at the results before & after applying CSS is astonishing.

Work Link: https://github.com/kohthecodemaster/webfundamentals

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#100daysofcode #css #webdevelopment 

Day 02: Intro. to CSS
21st October 2K20, 10:50 PM

Learnings: basics of CSS, colors, borders, CSS selectors, advanced CSS selectors, texts & fonts, google fonts

Thoughts:
Covered up the basics of CSS. Its actually fun & am already enjoying it. Got the grasp of general rules of CSS. Although didn't made any beautifully styled pages yet but understood the convention of using external CSS stylesheets for all the styling & HTML for only the structure of the web page.

Work Link: https://github.com/kohthecodemaster/webfundamentals

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 01: Intro. to HTML
20th October 2K20, 10:47 PM

#100daysofcode #html

Learnings: HTML boilerplate code, tables, forms, inputs and other tag elements

Thoughts: 
Completed the basics as well as intermediate of HTML. As I already knew some of the basics, so it didn't took me long to complete it. Reviewed the basics of HTML and got grasp over tables, forms & several input elements. 

"Learning is an active process. We learn by doing. Only knowledge that is used sticks in your mind." ~Dale Carnegie

Since I believe in this philosophy, no matter how little or small it be, I try to use the knowledge to make something out of it. So, using plain HTML tables I made simple chart of first gen Pokemon. Although it is nothing beautiful but that is for later part when CSS comes into the picture for styling.

It was the first day and I could already feel its going to be an amazing journey. Good start, looking forward to grab the pace & keep learning.

Work Link: https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Day 01: 100 Days Of Code
20th October 2K20, 01:55 PM

#100daysofcode

I've decided to accept this challenge of 100daysofcode with the goal of learning full stack web development.
Hopefully this journey helps me to improve my programming skills as well as my GitHub profile and portfolio by working upon several projects.
I'm willing to fulfil this commitment and am accountable for documenting my daily progress with the tag '#100daysofcode'

Rules
------

1. The main rule: Code minimum an hour every day for the next 100 days.

2. Post my progress daily at LinkedIn with the hashtag: #100DaysOfCode

3. I will push code to GitHub every day so that anyone can see my progress.
   If you want, you can follow me here - https://github.com/kohthecodemaster/100daysofcode

4. I will mostly be working with Web Development through following sources:
   a. FreeCodeCamp.org
   b. YouTube tutorials & playlists
   c. Online courses - LinkedIn learning, Udemy, Coursera, etc.
   d. Blogs, articles, other people's codes - Medium, Stack Overflow, GitHub, etc.
   e. Others - Books & other references

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

Day 25: Simple To-Do List
Repo - SimpleTodoList
Commit - Init
Mini-Project

README.md, after:

# 100DaysOfCode
Documenting My Journey Of  '#100DaysOfCode'

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 25: Simple To-Do List
13th November 2K20, 10:49 PM

Learnings: Practice & Implementation by building mini-project

Thoughts:
Started 2nd mini-project 'Simple To-Do List'. Its going to be complete polished application including both the designing as well as logical parts. Half part is done i.e. structure using HTML & logics as well as events using jQuery & javascript. Remaining half is the designing and the responsiveness of the application using CSS & Bootstrap.

Work Link:

https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/SimpleTodoList

#100daysofcode #miniproject #todolist #html #javascript #jquery #webdevelopment 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 24: jQuery Events
12th November 2K20, 09:02 PM

Learnings: on, click, key events including keypress, keydown, keyup, effects including fade & slide.

Thoughts:
Advanced jQuery events for listeners. Different key events to detect keystrokes pressed by the user. General 'on' method for all the listeners along with the callback method.
Animation effects including fade in/out & slide in/out.

Work Link:
https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

#100daysofcode #jquery #javascript #webdevelopment 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 23: Guess The Color
11th November 2K20, 09:31 PM

Learnings: Practice & Implementation by building mini-project

Thoughts:
Finished the logical part of the game as well. Added JS & jQuery for DOM manipulation. Handled all the event listeners for all the buttons and color tiles of the game grid. The game is now in stable condition & working smoothly. Although it ain't something that big of an achievement, but I still counts it as a little milestone.

Cheers to many more milestones coming in the near future.

Work Link:
https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/Guess-The-Color

#100daysofcode #javascript #jquery #miniproject #webdevelopment 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 22: Guess The Color - Mini Project
10th November 2K20, 10:30 PM

Learnings: Practice & Implementation by building mini-project

Thoughts:
Designed the game page using HTML, CSS & Bootstrap. Implementing the knowledge gained so far by building a simple color guessing game. It will generate random colors using the RGB color model and the player has to guess which of the color tiles represents the given RGB color.
Next will add JS for DOM manipulation.

Work Link:
https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/Guess-The-Color

#100daysofcode #miniproject #html #css #boostrap #webdevelopment 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 21: FreeCodeCamp.org - Basic CSS
9th November 2K20, 10:24 PM

Learnings: revised the basics of CSS @ freecodecamp.org

Thoughts:
Practiced the Basics CSS unit at FreeCodeCamp.org
Revised several CSS rules & concepts including fonts, size, border, different selectors & their priority, hex & rgb color model & more.
Next will begin mini project of color game which utilizes both designing using CSS & Bootstrap as well as DOM manipulation using javascipt & jQuery.

Work Link:
https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/responsive-web-design/basic-css/

#100daysofcode #freecodecamp #webdevelopment 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 20: Intro to jQuery
8th November 2K20, 10:42 PM

Learnings:
1. Select elements using $("cssQuerySelector")
2. Add, remove & toggle classes using jQuery methods
3. Other methods similar to vanilla js including text, html, attr

Thoughts:
Introduction to jQuery. Understood the role of jQuery. Anything that can be done with jQuery can be done without jQuery as well but its about ease of code and clarity. Where it takes long lines of code for particular task, jQuery has inbuilt method/way to do that with just a few lines of code & is more robust.

There's actually a website "http://youmightnotneedjquery.com" which illustrates examples of replicating things done with jQuery using plain js & supports why not to choose jQuery. But its considered worth knowing how to write code with / without jQuery.

Work Link:
https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

#100daysofcode #jquery #webdevelopement 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 19: Advanced DOM Manipulation
7th November 2K20, 10:24 PM

Learnings:
1. Add, remove & toggle classList
2. textContent & innerHTML
3. getAttribute & setAttribute
4. Adding event listeners on elements

Thoughts:
Dived deeper into DOM for advanced manipulation. Generally its considered good practice to add or remove css classes to the elements rather than explicitly specifying the styles with javascript code. Understood the difference between textContent & innerHTML as well as the use of get & setAttribute methods.

Event listeners makes the webpage interactive and simply adds new flavor. Used all the knowledge gained so far about DOM to build a basic 'Scorekeeper' application.

Work Link:
https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

#100daysofcode #dom #javascript #webfundamentals

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 18: Document Object Model
6th November 2K20, 10:24 PM

Learnings: 
1. document - the root element of the DOM
2. 5 ways to select elements (id, class, tag, querySelector, querySelectorAll)
3. Node list of elements similar to arrays
4. Manipulate DOM for blinking effect
5. setInterval method for timely iterations

Thoughts:
DOM - Document Object Model. Worked with 5 ways of selecting the elements using document methods including id, class, tag, querySelector & querySelectorAll. Difference and similarities between node list and arrays. The querySelectorAll method of document returns node list of elements rather than an array. Using setInterval method to change the text colod and background color of elements in timely manner which appears to be a blinking effect.

Work Link:
https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

#100daysofcode #javascript #webdevelopment

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 17: JS Objects
5th November 2K20, 09:44 PM

Learnings:
1. JS object, function as part of object i.e. method 
2. Two ways of accessing keys of object i.e. obj.name & obj["name"] 
3. Using variable to access key of an object
4. this keyword

Thoughts:
JS objects and functions as part of objects i.e. methods. Understood the difference between arrays and objects as well as using the objects with arrays and vice versa according to the scenario. It is similar to the dictionary or map in other programming languages but it allows 2 ways to access its keys i.e. via dot as well as [ ] operators. Also worked with the 'this' keyword to use the properties/fields of the object inside the methods of the object itself.

Work Link:

https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

#100daysofcode #javascript #webdevelopment

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 16: JS Arrays
4th November 2K20, 10:51 PM

Learnings: javascript array functions including push, pop, shift, unshift, indexOf, slice. Array iteration using forEach method.

Thoughts:
Worked with fundamental and one of the most basic data structure i.e. Arrays. Its mostly similar to other programming languages like indexOf method. Slice method is used for splitting and segmentation and also forEach is a method of the array in javascript unlike the language construct in Java.

Work Link: https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

#100daysofcodechallenge #javascript #webdevelopment

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 15: Loops, Functions & Scope
3rd November 2K20, 11:04 PM

Learnings: for and while loops, functions and arguments, local and global scopes

Thoughts:
Practiced basic loops and functions using arguments. Understood the difference between local and global scopes of the variables. One thing that I found quite different from other programming languages is that in case of insufficient or missing arguments in functions, it doesn't crashes and doesn't throws any exceptions but rather implicitly handles it by initializing such variables as undefined.

Work Link:
https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

#100daysofcode #javascript #webdevelopment

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 14: JS Codeflow
2nd November 2K20, 10:01 PM

Learnings: Boolean logic and exceptional cases, == vs === operators, conditional blocks if-else-if

Thoughts:
Deep understanding of the boolean logic. Practiced different combinations of boolean along with == and === operators. Lots of exceptional cases for boolean values which at first seems to be true but are considered as false in javascript and vice versa.

Work Link: https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

#100daysofcode #javascript #webdevelopment 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 13: Intro. to JS
1st November 2K20, 09:18 PM

Learnings: 5 primitive data types (number, string, boolean, null, undefined), prompt, alert, log

Thoughts:
Completed the bootstrap chapter and moved on to the next chapter Intro. to JS. Already excited to work at the back-end side using JS and its libraries and frameworks like React and NodeJS. Understood the basics of JS including its syntax and how to include an external JS file. Within a couple of days I'll get more familiar and comfortable with it and start making some mini-projects.

Work Link: https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

#100daysofcode #javascript #webdevelopment

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 12: Flexbox
31st October 2K20, 11:00 PM

Learnings: flexbox, justify-content-*, align-items-*, main axis, cross axis, flex-direction, flex-row, flex-column, align-self-*

Thoughts:
Took a look at flexbox. It was quite a lot of classes. Understood the different axis and when to use which class to justify and align items accordingly. It makes the box model much more easier and efficient.

Work Link:
https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

#100daysofcode #flexbox #webdevelopment 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 11: Bootstrap Cards
30th October 2K20, 10:42 PM

Learnings: cards, card-img, card-body, card-title, card-text, utility classes including border, margin and padding

Thoughts:
Practiced using cards and utility classes of bootstrap including border, margin and padding with different breakpoints. It provides an easy to use utility classes which would otherwise take long lines of code in CSS.

Work Link:
https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

#100daysofcode #bootstrap4 #webdevelopment 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 10: Bootstrap documentation
29th October 2K20, 09:57 PM

Learnings: block-quote, text-*, blockquote-footer, cite

Thoughts:
Visited bootstrap documentation page for more insights. History, new updates, differences between v3 and v4. Practiced some of the newly learnt tags and classes including text-*, blockquote, and cite.

Work Link: 
https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

#100daysofcode #bootstrap #webdevelopment 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#100daysofcode #bootstrap #webdevelopment 

Day 09: Landing page of calm.com
28th October 2K20, 10:48 PM

Learnings: opacity, filter, brightness,  linear-gradient, container, hover, position

Thoughts:
Took an attempt to clone the landing page of calm.com
using CSS & Bootstrap. Feels good to see myself making progress little by little.

Work Link: 
https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#100daysofcode #bootstrap #webdevelopment 

Day 08: Updated Image Gallery using Bootstrap
27th October 2K20, 09:44 PM

Learnings: jumbotron, navbar, responsive layout for different screen sizes

Thoughts:
Applied the current knowledge of bootstrap to update previously built image gallery. Added navbar and jumbotron. Made it responsive for different screen sizes with just a few lines of code using powerful classes of bootstrap.

Work Link:
https://github.com/kohthecodemaster/webfundamentals

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#100daysofcode #html #freecodecamp 

Day 07: freecodecamp.org - Basic html and html5
26th October 2K20, 11:11 PM

Learnings: Basic html and html5

Thoughts:
Took a day off from bootstrap and explored FreeCodeCamp.org website. It is a wonderful learning resource for web development. One thing about it that intrigued me is its interactive sessions for every learning, there is always a hands-on practice exercise which enhance the level of understanding and promotes "learning by doing" step-by-step.
Completed 'Basic HTML and HTML5' section of responsive-web-design at freecodecamp.org

Work Link:
https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/responsive-web-design/basic-html-and-html5

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#100daysofcode #bootstrap #webdevelopment 

Day 06: Bootstrap Navbar & Grid System
25th October 2K20, 11:12 PM

Learnings:
1. Bootstrap Navbar - navbar, navbar-dark, navbar-expand, navbar-brand, navbar-toggler, collapse, navbar-nav, nav-item, nav-link
2. Grid System - different sizes / break points - col-lg-*, col-md-*, col-sm-*, col-*, offset-*

Thoughts:
Deep dive into bootstrap navbar & its different classes. Took me a lil. while to understand the use-case of various classes by playing with some of them including navbar-nav, navbar-collapse, navbar-toggler, etc. Also worked with basics of grid system & how to make page responsive with different screen sizes using different classes. Next looking forward to implement all this knowledge of bootstrap and explore more.

Work Link: 
https://github.com/kohthecodemaster/webfundamentals

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#100daysofcode #bootstrap #webdevelopment 

Day 05: Basics of Bootstrap
24th October 2K20, 08:29 PM

Learnings: 
Bootstrap buttons - outline, sizes, active, disabled, block
Bootstrap forms - form-group, form-control, form-text, text-muted, form-check, form-check-input, form-check-label, aria-describedby, small

Thoughts:
Introduction to bootstrap framework for designing faster & easier with huge collection of classes. Explored the official docs pf bootstrap and worked with buttons & forms.

Work Link: https://github.com/kohthecodemaster/webfundamentals

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#100daysofcode #css #webdevelopment 

Day 04: Designed Blog Article Page
23rd October 2K20, 08:23 PM

Learnings: linear-gradient, letter-spacing, text-transform, horizontal ruler, margin, padding

Thoughts:
Completed the basics & intermediate units of CSS. Although there's still plenty left to learn in-depth & it'll be mastered gradually with time. Designed simple 'Blog Article' web page using plain HTML & CSS. Next will begin with Bootstrap.

Work Link: https://github.com/kohthecodemaster/webfundamentals

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#100daysofcode #css #webdevelopment

Day 03: Image Gallery
22nd October 2K20, 08:41 PM

Learnings: CSS box model, margin, padding, img, float

Thoughts:
Understood the concept of box model and how each element is treated as a box in CSS. Took an attempt to design simple Tic-Tac-Toe game board using CSS borders.
Designed basic Image Gallery page which made me realize the power of CSS. Looking at the results before & after applying CSS is astonishing.

Work Link: https://github.com/kohthecodemaster/webfundamentals

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#100daysofcode #css #webdevelopment 

Day 02: Intro. to CSS
21st October 2K20, 10:50 PM

Learnings: basics of CSS, colors, borders, CSS selectors, advanced CSS selectors, texts & fonts, google fonts

Thoughts:
Covered up the basics of CSS. Its actually fun & am already enjoying it. Got the grasp of general rules of CSS. Although didn't made any beautifully styled pages yet but understood the convention of using external CSS stylesheets for all the styling & HTML for only the structure of the web page.

Work Link: https://github.com/kohthecodemaster/webfundamentals

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 01: Intro. to HTML
20th October 2K20, 10:47 PM

#100daysofcode #html

Learnings: HTML boilerplate code, tables, forms, inputs and other tag elements

Thoughts: 
Completed the basics as well as intermediate of HTML. As I already knew some of the basics, so it didn't took me long to complete it. Reviewed the basics of HTML and got grasp over tables, forms & several input elements. 

"Learning is an active process. We learn by doing. Only knowledge that is used sticks in your mind." ~Dale Carnegie

Since I believe in this philosophy, no matter how little or small it be, I try to use the knowledge to make something out of it. So, using plain HTML tables I made simple chart of first gen Pokemon. Although it is nothing beautiful but that is for later part when CSS comes into the picture for styling.

It was the first day and I could already feel its going to be an amazing journey. Good start, looking forward to grab the pace & keep learning.

Work Link: https://github.com/KOHTheCodeMaster/WebFundamentals

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Day 01: 100 Days Of Code
20th October 2K20, 01:55 PM

#100daysofcode

I've decided to accept this challenge of 100daysofcode with the goal of learning full stack web development.
Hopefully this journey helps me to improve my programming skills as well as my GitHub profile and portfolio by working upon several projects.
I'm willing to fulfil this commitment and am accountable for documenting my daily progress with the tag '#100daysofcode'

Rules
------

1. The main rule: Code minimum an hour every day for the next 100 days.

2. Post my progress daily at LinkedIn with the hashtag: #100DaysOfCode

3. I will push code to GitHub every day so that anyone can see my progress.
   If you want, you can follow me here - https://github.com/kohthecodemaster/100daysofcode

4. I will mostly be working with Web Development through following sources:
   a. FreeCodeCamp.org
   b. YouTube tutorials & playlists
   c. Online courses - LinkedIn learning, Udemy, Coursera, etc.
   d. Blogs, articles, other people's codes - Medium, Stack Overflow, GitHub, etc.
   e. Others - Books & other references

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
